Packet Tracer - Network Representation
===
### Step 1
**a) The icon toolbar at the bottom left hand corner has various categories of networking components. You should see categories that correspond to intermerdiary devices, end devices, and media. The Connections category (with  the lightning  bolt icon)  represents  the  networking  media  supported  by Packet Tracer. There is also an End Devices category and two categories specific to Packet Tracer: Custom Made Devices and Multiuser Connection.**


**b. List the  intermediary device  categories.**  
1. Routers
2. Switches
3. Hubs
4. Wireless devices
5. Security
6. WAN Emulation

**c. Without entering into the Internet  cloud  or Intranet  cloud,  how  many icons in the topology  represent endpoint  devices  (only one connection  leading  to them)?**  
1. PC
2. Laptop
3. Server
4. Printer
5. Server
6. IP phone
7. VoIP device
8. Phone
9. TV
10. Wireless tablet
11. Smart devices
12. Generic wireless
13. Generic wired
14. Sniffer  

**d. Without counting  the two  clouds, how  many icons in the topology  represent  intermediary devices  (multiple connections  leading  to them)?**

**e. How  many  end  devices  are notdesktop computers?f.How  many  different  types of media connections  are  used  in this network topology?**

### Step 2: Explain the purpose of the devices.
**a. In Packet Tracer, only the  Server-PT  device  can  act as a server.  Desktop or  Laptop  PCs cannot  act as a server.  Based  on  your studies so far,  explain  the client-server  model.**

**b. List at least two  functions  of  intermediary  devices.**

**c. Without enteringinto the Internet  cloud  or Intranet  cloud,  how  many icons in the topology  represent endpoint  devices  (only one connection  leading  to them)?**

**d. Without counting  the two  clouds, how  many icons in the topology  represent  intermediarydevices  (multiple connections  leading  to them)?**

**e. How  many  end  devices  are notdesktop computers?**

**f. How  many  different  types of media connections  are  used  in this network topology?**

### Step 2: Explain the purpose of the devices.

**a. In Packet Tracer, only the  Server-PT  device  can  act as a server.  Desktop or  Laptop  PCs cannot  act as a server.  Based  on  your studies so far,  explain  the client-server  model.**

**b. List at least two  functions  of  intermediary  devices.**

**c. List at least two  criteria forchoosing  a network  media  type.Step 3:Compare and contrast LANs and WANs.a.Explain the  difference  between  a LAN  and  a WAN. Give  examples of  each.b.In  the Packet Tracer  network,  how  many WANs do you  see?c.How  many  LANs do  you see?**

**d. The  Internet  in this Packet Tracer  network  is overly  simplified  and  does  not represent  the structure  and form  of  the real  Internet.  Brieflydescribe  the Internet.**

**e. What are  some of  the common  ways a home  user  connects to the Internet?**

**f.What are  some common methods  that businessesuse toconnect  to the Internet  in your  area?**

### Challenge
**Now  that you  have  had  an  opportunity  to explore  the network  represented  in this Packet Tracer  activity, you may have  picked up a few  skills that you would  like to try out. Or  maybe  you would  like the opportunity  to explore  this network  in more  detail. Realizing  that most of  what  you see and  experience  in Packet Tracer  is currently  beyond  your  skill level,  here  are  some challenges  you might  want to attempt. Do not worry  if  you cannot  do them  all. You  will be  a Packet Tracer  master user  and  network  designer  soon  enough.**
* **Add an  end  device  to the topology  and  connect  it to one  of  the LANs with  a media  connection.  What else does  thisdevice  need  to send data  to other  end  users? Can  you provide  the  information?  Is there  a way to verify  that you  correctly connectedthe device?**
* **Add a  new  intermediary  device  to one  of  the networks  and connect it to one  of the  LANs or  WANs with  a media  connection.  What else does  this device  need  to serve  as an intermediary  to other  devices  in the network?**
* **Open  a new  instance of  Packet Tracer.  Create  a new  network  with at least two LANs  connected  by a WAN. Connect  all the devices.  Investigatethe original  Packet Tracer  activity to see what  else you  might need  to do  to make your  new  network  functional.  Record  your  thoughts  and  save  your Packet Tracer  file. You may want  to revisit  your network  later after  you have  mastered  a few  more  skills.**
